on tyr settlement at the moment he was
here but that didn't last for long and
in a matter of a few years the area was
developing quite quite dramatically
Washington journal continues little
change here as we said earlier in the
show we were hoping to bring you live
coverage of FCC chairman Reed Hundt at
the National Journal he was meeting with
a group of reporters there this morning
we had some technical problems with that
event so we're not going to have live
coverage of that event we will be able
to tape it for you and show it later the
two gentlemen at either side of me here
were to have been watching that event
and then come into the studio to talk
about it but nonetheless we'll talk
about communications issues for the next
40 or 45 minutes or so our two guests
are Patrick Mane's he is president of
the media Institute good morning good
morning
and Mark Crispin Miller there's a
professor professor of Media Studies at
Johns Hopkins University a good morning
to you thanks for coming by my pleasure
well what are your main issues these
days your main concerns as you look at
the FCC well not having seen Reed Hundt
speech but having heard him on Diane
rhiness today talking about the present
as a kind of golden age of competition
in the broadcast media I suppose I would
respond by saying and open up by saying
that I think that there is far too
little competition in the broadcast
media today that there is far too much
power wielded by a very few very large
multinational corporations and that this
this may well be creating serious
problems for our democracy can you give
us some examples of that power as yeah
as you see it
well formerly the broadcast media were
when I say formally I mean since the 30s
radio for example and then TV were
indeed largely controlled by large
corporations but the difference between
then and now is that that kind of
control was restricted more or less to
the field of broadcast media now we have
very large corporations like the Disney
Corporation Rupert Murdoch's News
Corporation Limited General Electric
companies whose main business is not by
any means broadcasting or cinema or book
publishing but which now own
considerable interest in each of those
culture industries just to answer your
question in part I would say that one
danger is that a company with with the
enormous interests in for example
nuclear production or weapons
manufacturing will naturally not want
certain kinds of news broadcast about
those activities people inside of ABC
now that Disney owns it have worried
aloud about the small likelihood
henceforth of their doing any very
punchy or negative stories or even very
truthful stories about Disney's
activities this is only natural it's
only natural that a very powerful entity
would want the news coming out of its
own news divisions to reflect well on
itself and I think that this is too much
power concentrated in too few hands
let's get Patrick Mane's involve you
with the media Institute the president
what do you make of that argument well I
guess what I'd say initially is that
that's not the subject I would have
discussed and I don't think it's a
studied Reed Hundt was going to discuss
the day but but insofar as insofar as
concentration of media ownership is a is
an economic matter than Mattson that's
an antitrust issue insofar as
concentration is an editorial issue then
I guess I'd have to say I see more
diversity rather than less owing to the
delivery of so much more programming via
technologies like cable TV I note that
the in recent months and years the
decline in in the in all day parts in
the share of and the share of viewership
held by the broadcast networks
I think the new technologies like can
like the Internet
offer up substantially greater diversity
I'm not an expert in antitrust and
itself and so whether these these
concentrations are in restraint of trade
or not I don't know insofar as they come
about in consequence of deregulation of
the industry however I think it's the
consensus or the most economists that
the the current robust economy that
we're now enjoying is in some
substantial degree owing to the fact of
deregulation of lots of industries
including this one but let me answer
your original question instead of
answering professor Miller's then
concern my concern with the FCC right
now and with the Congress right now is
that I think we've they've embarked on a
on a course of conduct that's deeply
intrusive into the editorial processes
of the mass media in this country and I
worry very much that that defense of the
First Amendment as we've understood it
has become a pursuit that's enjoyed and
practiced by very few people
and it was maybe never a popular thing
to do but there was some romance
attached to it I think some years ago I
don't think there is much now and
moreover I think that the Congress and
others have learned how to sort of a
coerce the media in ways that are
especially troublesome even where the
the ends that are said to motivate this
action are are you know well considered
and and ennoble let me stop you there
and say hello to the viewers we're going
to invite you to phone in with your
questions and comments on communications
issues we'll go to the phones in just a
couple of minutes here we have two
guests in our studio for the next 35 or
40 minutes or so they are mark Crispin
Miller a professor of Media Studies at
Johns Hopkins University and Patrick
Mane's who is president of the
Media Institute will go back to you mr.
Miller professor Miller in just a second
but I wanted to hear an example or two
about what you were just talking about
the editorial process and then and the
coercion can you think of a couple of
examples chico the most time the example
would be the recent the recent
congressional effort i would
characterize it that way that yielded
the agreement on the part of
broadcasters and hollywood and the cable
industry to to further identify through
their ratings the some of the program
characteristics and that's this
so-called VSL they adding the to the
ratings this not just age based
information as they have with hollywood
pictures but but content based
information that goes to whether or not
a program is violent or has sexual
situations or new to do that sort of
thing what i find particularly scary
about that it's kind of the way that
that arrangement was worked basically
the industry was sort of coerced into
voluntarily accepting this arrangement
and that's a that's a way of doing
business that i i fear could be done
again and again and again and so I worry
about that quite a lot wanna comment on
it yeah I guess Patrick and I would
disagree completely about this to me the
idea that the FCC in any way coerces or
bullies the major broadcast
organizations seems to me unfounded the
FCC well first of all just to speak
about the relationship between Congress
and and
the FCC and the major media corporations
in in January the January before the
telecommunications bill was passed
Newt Gingrich met with the CEOs
companies like Time Warner and
telecommunications incorporated Rupert
Murdoch was was there Newt Gingrich's
editor and this is in the Washington
Post these men asked Newt Gingrich to
what can we do to help what can we do to
help this was the upcoming legislation
on behalf of telecommunications and he
said teach your children to behave by
which he meant get the journalists who
worked for you to to kind of tow the
line now in as much as that landmark
piece of legislation was crafted with
the full participation of those huge
companies I don't think that there's
really any danger of the FCC or Congress
turning into a Big Brother the FCC has
never refused a television license to
any major commercial entity never
they've always been very cozy and this
Congress is quite friendly to those
extremely powerful figures because they
actually determine of course who gets
airtime and who doesn't I mean a
politicians would be crazy to alienate
the National Association of Broadcasters
and I don't think that has ever happened
and I don't think it's happening now I
don't respond to that well I'm not
trying already begin the III my point
again was that it was that it was it was
a congressional effort that I find
frightening here not so much the FCC is
although I think Reed Hundt
gives gives support to that idea and to
kindred ideas as he has supported the
so-called educational children's
television programming which i think is
it going to be a difficult thing and and
of course he's supporting this notion of
sort of a social compact which has its
program as its program dimensions
so I I mean the the notion that
politicians are afraid of our cozy up to
these media organizations again I think
you have to disagree talking about if
they're if the suggestion is made that
Congress might for instance mark go
along with say ownership ownership
legislation that the industry wanted
then I think maybe Congress would that
maybe because the Congress now is
dominated by Republicans who tend to
favor marketplace solutions and would
get get government out of the way where
where that was recommended but where it
comes to legislation I think this
Congress is on both sides of the aisle
is has made it clear that they're going
directly after the editorial
independence of these companies not just
broadcasters not just capable casters I
mean look at the margins by which the
Communications Decency Act passed I mean
it was the the rare and the brave member
of Congress that devote an a on that
Senator McCain who's from I'm from
Arizona by the way and glad to be from
Arizona but I mean I I don't think if if
the NAB thinks that Senator McCain right
now is in their back pocket or something
I I'd be very surprised
plenty more time to talk let's get some
of the viewers involved here in the
segment communications issues Warren
Michigan thanks for hanging on you're
our first call sure I like to bring up
the site the FCC giving away this
digital TV spectrum sudo broadcast media
I mean this is a giveaway of I don't
know it all depends whose figure you
take 7 billion to 70 billion dollars you
know and the broadcaster's nation as we
said that they would return the present
spectrum in 7 years they are now backing
out of that saying well we'll return it
in 7 years if everybody has a TV that
will accept the new system you know
that's ridiculous
and I also would like to compliment the
professor for the North John Hopkins
referring to Walt Disney it's
appropriate because the icon of Mickey
Mouse associated with the Walt Disney is
exactly the shape that the media agent
today thank you thank you College you
get all that I didn't get the beginning
that digital TV in the future of that
many complimented you well I don't know
what he said about the about digital TV
let me let me bring up one of the
articles that we saw in the paper today
one of them dealing with communications
issues Christian Science Monitor do
broadcasters serve public enough
question mark Alexandre marks at a
Washington turn on the TV as the picture
flickers on has it ever occurred to you
the airwaves carrying NYPD Blue in the
evening news also belong to you probably
not but it has to Reed Hundt chairman of
the FCC into Senator John McCain a
Republican from Arizona and a President
Clinton none of them thinks you get
enough from the people who use those
valuable assets and they're determined
to change that mister Clinton is now
appointing a panel to determine what the
public interest obligations of the
broadcaster should be in the new world
of high-definition TV the FCC is also
about to start a fact-finding procedure
to find out what the public thinks it
deserves any thoughts on this well I
think the public deserves to be reminded
that they do own the airwaves they own
the tv spectrum and I would I would
guess that if if the people were well
informed on this subject they would
heartily assert that anyone who uses the
TV spectrum should pay a toll to use it
I don't think that's something that very
many people would really stand against
the idea of giving it away is completely
unacceptable
and I would say too that the idea of an
auction is also unacceptable one-time
payment for use of these extraordinarily
valuable properties forever I have a
feeling that
the first amendment would best be served
if some of those frequencies were leased
to these very large users and if others
of them were made available to a wide
range of users but it seems to me I mean
from my point of view from my standpoint
I should say that these few huge media
corporations want the entire digital
spectrum to themselves which isn't
something that fulfills the spirit of
the First Amendment that's that's that's
my view anyway this remains a little bit
more from that piece by Alexandre Marx
the moves have sparked indignation and
television circles and set the stage for
a tense behind-the-scenes battle with
the National Association of Broadcasters
NAB one of Washington's most powerful
lobbies already full of quiet
recriminations and fierce indignation
this fight will determine what you see
when you turn on the TV well into the
next generation
well the clearest thing in the world is
that is that all the media in the United
States all the electronic media are
going to convert from an analog to a
digital standard that's going to be a
liberating thing it's going to be
interactive it's going to be narrow cast
narrow casting is the solution to a lot
of these things because narrow cast
affords the opportunity of niche
programming and excellence in
programming the a couple points about
the the giveaway that was by the way
that was the callers in question he was
wondering about this just giveaway he
was lamenting what he characterized as
it as this giveaway of course for most
people that own television stations and
now they did pay something for that they
paid I mean I guarantee you Westinghouse
paid a whole lot just recently to by CBS
and and of course some Disney paid a lot
to buy capital cities/abc
the the the the notion of the that
broadcast stations are getting something
for nothing here I think is undercut
substantially by the fact that whatever
the formula ultimately adopted it is
anticipated that they get back the
analog signal and so I think your
viewers need to know that I mean what's
being proposed here is that during the
conversion to a digital standard the
broadcasters are being given an amount
of spectrum equal to what they currently
have with the notion that at some point
in time they will have to give back the
analog signal and in which that will
then subsequently be auctioned off for
use by pub by the public in whatever
ways the public may want to want to use
it but so I don't I don't really see it
as a as a give away I think the
transition period and I think the Devils
in the details of that deal to be sure
but I don't see it as a giveaway it's
time for some more calls oak forest
illinois thanks for hanging on you're
our next call yeah well like a common in
half to me aren't first kind of in the
form of a rhetoric a rhetorical question
and I think I already know the answer to
aren't on the public airwaves owned by
the public and don't isn't the FCC kind
of like the real estate agent that
ultimately leases out the public
airwaves to the broadcast is the
broadcast over and they pay nothing to
the FCC I I mean I'm in fact I've been
led to believe they don't pay like any
kind of a fee to the to the FCC or or
nor do they pay for any kind of a
license in order to broadcast over the
public airwaves and what kind of like
miss me is that you know I find the
quality of local television news to be
you know really poor on all of the
network's on ABC NBC and CBS what do you
mean poor caller in the sense that you
know it's one murder after another one
fire after another it's a street crime
you know
street crime not much coverage of a the
International issues its national
politics not much coverage of what's
going on in the
House of the Senate like not much cover
to the line-item veto not much coverage
of non extensive coverage of the UPS
strike and and and what's going on there
more kind of just kind of like
nonsensical random violence it doesn't
really seem that you know it's important
you know in the sense that people are
concerned about violence but I doesn't
seem to offer solutions as to how to
help these kinds of problems that exist
in our society it just seems to kind of
you know you know put in front of you
you know you know some good pictures of
some woman crying in front of a building
that's in fire and that's that bet to me
you know is what most local news and
then some why they're in support okay
caller caller mentioning on network news
as well just so happens in the Style
section of the Washington Post today's
story about journalism the crime spree
on network news this piece by Howard
Kurtz points out that from 1993 to 96
the homicide rate in the u.s. dropped by
20 percent but the picture was slightly
different on the network Evening News
where coverage of murders of celebrities
tourists ordinary Americans soared by an
average of seven hundred twenty one
percent during the same period compared
with the three preceding years this is
part of a report to be released today by
the Center for Media and public affairs
which has been watching the networks and
1449 stories involving OJ that of about
7,000 stories in response to that oh
yeah I think our callers rhetorical
question was right on the money so to
speak it seems to me that when a a kind
of ferocious competition for ratings
points dominates
what you have is an inevitable lowering
of journalistic standards local news in
this country is a scandal night after
night and city after City these people
are subjected to a barrage of what
amounts to anti urban propaganda city
looks like a hellhole no matter where
you live and it isn't a surprise
therefore the town's like the one I'm
from Baltimore are hemorrhaging white
population middle-class population
generally as people flee to the suburbs
it drives away investment the fact is
that this kind of lurid highly
sensationalistic news and it isn't
really important news is is not only
journalistically invalid but but a kind
of civic and economic disaster what
should be done what should the diet or
the menu well okay that that's actually
a very complicated question but it seems
to me that we ought not to consign our
most important journalistic organs
entirely to the tender mercies of huge
entities whose only concern is their
shareholders and their quarterly reports
it seems to me that if there were a toll
placed on TV spectrum and let me say
something truly heretical if we were to
consider a tax on TV advertising which
is an enormous ly lucrative affair makes
it's the motor that makes the whole
system run there would be more than
enough to support not only public TV and
radio but also to provide funds to
enable some of these TV journalists to
have some autonomy some editorial
autonomy some of the autonomy that
patrick has rightly noted as as a very
important thing the people of the
entities that hold the purse strings are
the ones that are ultimately responsible
indirectly was not personally but
indirectly responsible for the
inevitable lowering of standards that
that our last caller mentioned and let
me just point out that he's not alone
last year the Pew foundation published a
poll reporting that viewership of
television knows had declined by 10
percent
all across the country this isn't only
the case with TV
moreover but it's also the case with the
music business which is in a kind of
economic decline the publishing business
is in big trouble the movie business is
in trouble all of well not all of them
but many let's say many of the certainly
the most important culture industries
that are dominated by these few figures
have seen the quality of product decline
so much that the public is beginning to
notice mr. Mane's well Ju a bunch of
things uh first uh first did I
understand you to say that you thought
local news had led to white flight from
Baltimore it is my contention that it's
helped to fix an image and people in
fact we're doing a study on that very
subject right now I'd like to see that
that's an amazing I'll put you on the
list okay look I'm not really not here
as a defender of local news standards or
of national news standards I don't have
anything to do with it but it's my
notion and an understanding that
broadcasting by stations and by networks
is a business and the nature of that
business is to provide news and
entertainment programming in sufficient
numbers to attract advertisers and
advertising which is the only source of
the only revenue stream that comes into
these businesses
it's my further belief that the
conversion to digital and the advent of
new technologies is going to make
possible all sorts of wonderful things
that none of us have known this will
come about in consequence of the coming
together of televisions and computers in
some configurations and rather than
burden this technology called
broadcasting which is so ill-equipped to
handle it with some of these social
compact notions and I'd suggest that
it's better to apply a kind of level
playing field to all of it
get the government out of all of it
insofar as you can and allow allow the
new technologies to - to do what they do
best which is a lot of these things that
I think we're missing so if it's
excellence in news look where we are now
where this this very network is made
possible by a technology called cable so
is the Discovery Channel so was the
Animal Planet
so is CNBC so is you know a lot of the
narrowcast channels now have been made
possible by technology that's really the
solution let's move on to some more
calls Ocala Florida Florida thanks for
hanging on what is on your mind
regarding communications issues hi I
wanna say that I think there is too much
of an ethnic coalescing going on with
the big mainstream media giants and the
television and motion picture industry
and to some extent in the mainstream
print media as well what do you mean
well I mean among management and the top
employee payrolls are filled with people
with like sounding names who are mostly
Jewish now I've taken shots at
Christians you know English born
Americans persons who call us in
different ethnic groups so I know this
is something of a taboo subject that
doesn't get discussed very much no it's
something out one of our other callers
that brought up earlier in their opinion
you want to respond to this sure I
couldn't respond to that this is a this
is a very potent myth in the absence of
accurate information more and more
people across the country subscribe to
this myth which was first promoted on a
broad scale in this country in the 20s
by Henry Ford when he reprinted excerpts
of the protocols of the Elders of Zion
and the Dearborn independent the Nazis
subsidized the furthest spreaded as
propaganda through father Coughlin radio
broadcasts in the 30s after World War
two for understandable reasons the myth
settled down but now and it being a time
of economic stress and with a lot of
people being dislocated and feeling
insecure and with the media becoming
terribly powerful the extremely wealthy
and finally with people not knowing the
facts about who it is who owns the media
you hear a lot of this kind of thing
more and more what he's basically saying
is the media is is a Jewish conspiracy
well there are some Jews involved in
media ownership certainly there are
plenty Jews out in Hollywood working in
the film and TV industry in production
capacities and so on but we're talking
about capital we're talking about
multinational corporations like Rupert
Murdoch's News Corporation Limited like
John Malone's telecommunications
incorporated like Sony like Bertelsmann
of Germany these are companies that are
not by any stretch of the imagination
Jewish we're also talking about
companies like Disney in which the CEO
is Jewish but whose major shareholders
are not Jewish this is this is capital
its capital we're talking about I think
everybody at this table will agree it's
no particular ethnic group but one of
the dangers to democracy I would say
posed by the excessive power of media
corporations on the one hand and a lack
of enough accurate information about
this ownership on the other one of the
great dangers to the democracy is the
resurgence of a kind of neo-fascist
propaganda that is quite popular out
there you know beyond the beltway as
we've said
it's very popular in the black community
it's popular among you know certain
pockets of the white community if we can
use that word community here and I would
just like to say as a way of plugging
something that I think would help the
Nation magazine has been publishing over
the course of the last year and a half
accurate and detailed charts of media
ownership there was one in June of 96
that showed who owned all four the major
TV news divisions there was one last
March which demonstrate March 17th which
demonstrated the ownership of the book
publishing industry and we have one
coming out just this week on the
ownership of the music business and
there you'll see that as far as the
really powerful players are concerned
there is no ethnic uniformity we're
talking about capital mark Crispin
Miller is a professor of Media Studies
at Johns Hopkins and Baltimore also
contributes to Harper's the nation the
Atlantic the New York Review The Village
Voice the New Republic Mother Jones and
others Patrick Mane's as president of
the media Institute is our other guest
what is the media Institute first of all
the minister is a nonprofit that's
headquartered here in Washington Paul
and we serve to promote basically three
values one is a strong First Amendment
anothers deregulation and the third is
journalistic excellence and the we are
not a membership organization and it's a
small nonprofit our offices are here in
Georgetown and we promote those values
by filing lots of legal briefs in courts
and regulatory agencies and by
publishing books and by convening
conferences and seminars and we have a
regular luncheon series here in town
that c-span covers very often called
Communications Forum now the caller's
are bringing up all sorts of
communications issues the this segment
is very broad here because we're hoping
to hear from Reed Hundt we had some
signal problems but in viewing the FCC
let's start picking an issue or two or
three that they are focusing on these
days as you watch them
right off the top of your head well I
mean III think that the certainly one
issue that they're looking at right now
is the question of and this may be
instructive to is the question of
distilled spirits advertising on liquor
allison liquor at commissioner hunt was
stymied in his attempts to to to
officially put the FCC on record in that
proceeding it'll probably come back
though he as you know and as your
viewers I'm sure know there surely to be
a radically new FCC well it may not be
radically new but it'll be new and the
so that issue will probably come back
again and what I think is striking about
it is this that with with telleth
distilled spirits advertising as with
indecency on the Internet
as with sex and violence on broadcasting
the rationale is children so children
have now become the the primary
rationale for censorship in the United
States so I think that's a pretty juicy
target let's ask you to respond to that
talk about the liquor ads and sure his
comments there well I think it's
probably a good idea to talk about the
First Amendment because I believe I
share Patrick's reverence for the First
Amendment to the point that I think it's
probably appropriate to pay at least as
much attention to the influence of
commercial advertising as to the
influence of the federal government it
would seem to me that commercial
advertising is the most censorious force
operating now easily and it's also worth
noting just historically that the idea
of commercial speech as something
automatically worthy of constitutional
protection in other words the idea that
commercial speech falls under the within
the purview of the First Amendment is a
very recent idea the Supreme Court in
1942 which was a highly conservative
Court it was the one that FDR tried to
pack
change found across the board that is
unanimously that there was no way in
which commercial speech deserved First
Amendment protection this is this is an
idea that has really gained credence in
in legal circles only over the last
twenty or thirty years I think it's a
it's a it's a it's a mistaken notion and
one that is potentially damaging to the
democracy because commercial commercial
speech is another name for propaganda
and I don't think that propaganda
necessarily deserves the same kind of
protection that political speech does
well you know what go ahead propaganda
gets all sorts of a political protection
as a matter of fact political propaganda
is in the highest order of protected
speech but it's true that that
commercial speech has only been
understood to be protected speech since
the 70s with a case called Virginia
pharmacy nevertheless it has been
repeatedly and upheld by the supreme
court to be a part of a protected part
of speech and I think this I think
because the justices have come to
believe that people's interest in
economic information is oftentimes as
compelling as is their interest in
political information and so I I I think
that the the notion of protecting about
advertising as speech is not only you
know secure concept legally at this
point but but a good idea well talk
about politics in a couple of minutes at
time for candidates and that type of
thing is that's another FCC issue but
let's get some more calls in first
jupiter florida go right ahead
hi good thanks for hanging on what's on
your mind
well i have actually a few points to
make one with regards to go into digital
it appears to me that it's going to be
without the public's in an interaction
at all the absolute end to free
broadcasting people will no longer be
able to receive free broadcast signals
to their televisions
I'll have to purchase through some local
person he's a cable or a special box or
some kind of apparatus or rights to have
access to what used to be the public's
right to have action let me stop you
there you're showing I think that's
totally wrong
technologically I mean III think the
television sets starting and will be
made available that are prepared to
receive digital transmissions and when
broadcasters begin programming in a
digital standard it will still be it
will still be free for people that have
that those sets that's my understanding
Jupiter go right ahead with the second
point okay now the next point has been a
bone of contention with me for a long
time on this the media it is the total
disappearance of investigative reporting
true investigative reporting our local
affiliates down here in Florida they
bend over backwards to not investigate
local politics and report on it truly
they seem to be very biased toward
whatever bent is motivating them what a
TV market is that caller okay so you're
saying they've cut down on their
investigative
true investigative reporting what do you
mean true well I think that's where the
media in general whether it's national
or local I believe was supposed to be
like a buffer they're not supposed to be
necessarily friends of government
politics but actually our allied to go
in and do what we can't do if you look
into the back doors and see what is
really going on and what is really
driving issues and decisions if that's
true down there where you are why do you
think that is the case well I who is
there for the public to talk to about it
you can call it sure you can call FCC
you can call anybody you want but yeah
if that's the way they want to play the
game they're just gonna write it down
piece of paper and throw out the
dumpster and uh and who's to keep track
Thank You caller more on journalism
professor Miller well
I think he definitely has a point I
recommend that Jupiter get a hold of the
July August issue of extra a magazine
called extra which is published by
fairness and accuracy and reporting in
New York that issue is of interest
because it includes the results of a
poll that they did of investigative
reporters and editors both print and
broadcast varieties and they found an
inordinately high percentage of them
saying that they had been something like
73 percent new of times when they had
been pressured primarily by local
economic interests through the station's
they worked for to try to alter a story
or drop it and as many as 40% of them
knew of occasions when stories were
indeed changed or dropped because of
that kind of pressure it is look it's
it's not we're not talking about any
kind of conspiracy theory here when
there's a fierce competition for ever
higher ratings when when broadcasting is
entirely regarded as a business and
other sorts of civic and journalistic
concerns don't enter into it there will
be less and less reason for station
managers to tolerate news stories that
are going to drive away advert
advertising money and and what what he
says down in Florida certainly the same
in Baltimore where I'm from and I've
lived in many other cities around the
country it's it's pretty much of a of a
pandemic of avoidance you know and we
don't certainly see much in the way of
investigative reporting on TV anymore
there was a brief time in the early 60s
when out of the tradition of Edward r
Morrow TV network TV continued to do
some not some documentaries but that has
gradually disappeared over the years
before we move on you want to weigh in
on that no okay let's go right on to
Portland Oregon then go ahead call her
yes I'm calling to comment on what
someone was talking about earlier with
the way people
the news media shows particular things
my comment is and I myself have done a
lot of research on this subject
I'm in the process of writing a book
it's about the New World Order and it
has to do with the fact that ABC NBC CBS
are all affiliated with a world super
government and the media in a sense is
very misleading they tell you a basic
biased viewpoint and it's basically the
way they want you to look at it in a
sense sometimes you can you can turn the
TV down and just watch what's going on
in the background and get more out of it
than what the person is saying and I was
curious to know if the two people
sitting there if they have anything to
comment on if any of this has to do with
the New World Order and the fact that um
CBS NBC for example ABC uses a symbol of
the Rising Sun to CBS uses the symbol of
the all-seeing eye and NBC uses the
symbol of the peacock which roll pagan
symbol either of you ever thought on
this well yeah I do I'd say that it's
striking this is the second call like
this we've got anything this tells us
something and I think it would be
short-sighted as well as arrogant to
just dismiss these calls as as wacky in
a sense there's some truth to what our
last caller is saying I mean obviously
there is no world super government and
these symbols these corporate logos are
not well if they're pagan symbols that's
some kind of a historical accident
and if our caller would just go back and
research the days when those logos were
developed and the people who developed
them I think he'd feel a lot better
but the fact is that this kind of a
misconception is driven by something
it's driven by a sense of helplessness
it's driven by the clear perception that
there are very large powers out there
that have usurped Democratic control for
all of us there is something like a
world super
and it's basically the Nexus of
extremely powerful multinational
corporations that I would say call the
shots for all of us now and it's the
kind of thing that gives an opportunity
to rabble rousers and demagogues who
would appeal directly to the kind of
caller who just spoke to us
well if yes that's true I look a lot of
people are unhappy and a lot of people
are suffering from losses of one kind or
another and I think that's true the
society as a whole
there are lots of the institutions of
this society have been a weakened over
time and it's not entirely clear yet
what institutions are going to come in
to fill that void are I so but I'm not
again this is not a matter for
television to to address I mean well the
the television is not and cannot be the
national nanny it's not a surrogate for
parents it's not an institution of
Education and it can't do those things
what it what it does is if it's left
alone is it'll bring you news and
entertainment of a sort that you can
have some confidence in that you can
watch if you want to watch and if you
don't you can turn it off and when you
go be much beyond that
when particularly where the content of
programming is dictated directly or
indirectly by government whether it is
this government or parish the thoughts
or some one world government the new
world order then you get into real
serious problems much worse than the
kind of problems that are defined by the
occasionally errant television
production or the missed investigative
journalist dick piece bring this back to
the political arena for a couple of
minutes because we are under ten minutes
here one of the other issues the FCC has
been studying is TV time for candidates
candidates why well I mean here you have
that kind of speech you know if you look
at the case law in the Supreme Court the
First Amendment cases you see that the
kind of speech that is always understood
to be most
protected the most important is
political speech so here you you propose
in the public interest to require free
political airtime for candidates for
political office by a mechanism that is
surely to be enforced by an agency of
government the FCC I just think that's
out by the way the other problem with
that is that so it's my understanding
that none of these proposals for free TV
time would also prohibit paid TV time so
just as a matter as a viewer you might
be a little upset with it since I think
Rayleigh it'll simply be a matter of
adding on to the paid political time the
free political time all of it
administered by Washington DC how can
that that doesn't that doesn't compute
well I probably agree with Patrick about
that idea of free TV time I don't think
it's such a hot idea I have another idea
Patrick's gonna hate this one but I
think that well none of us would argue
with the fact that there is definitely a
crisis going on a crisis of confidence
in the political parties because of this
ongoing fundraising scandal which has to
deal with business as usual in the
nation's capital the fact is that both
political parties need many many
millions of dollars not because they're
personally greedy alone I'm sure they
are but because they need to they need
that oxygen of television advertising
and radio advertising that's why it's so
expensive to run for office in this
country
politics cease to become capital
intensive that is a matter of Ward
Heelers and getting out the vote
knowing people in the local party
district it ceased to become capital
intensive and it became sorry labor
intensive and it became capital
intensive over the last say 30 years as
TV has come to replace the election
organization the party machine which
wasn't necessarily all good but the fact
is it was a cheaper way to do politics
than what we have now now the both
political parties are deep in the
pockets of companies like News
Corporation and Disney and many many
others both at home and abroad
and I would say that that that the best
way to rectify the situation would be to
ban political advertising outright
Patrick and I could have a very
interesting argument about how much
educational content there really is in
certain kinds of propaganda
he mentioned liquor advertising as a
source of commercial information almost
television advertising whether it's
commercial or political is now so
sophisticated that it really doesn't
contain anything recognizable as
information per se it's highly sway civ
purely emotional and extremely expensive
and here's that here's the sort of an
old-fashioned notion I would suggest
that we let the politicians say whatever
they want in person let them give any
speeches they want anywhere have them be
covered maybe I'll take back my
statement about free TV time a moment
ago but the fact is that these
extraordinarily expensive slick well
produced TV spots that the parties have
to buy for broadcast all over the
country are the reason why the parties
need so much money it's why they're on
the take so I think that one of these
days we'll have to start to talk
seriously about a ban we think well you
know professor Miller said that he
thought it'd be an interesting debate
I'm not sure how interesting interesting
it would be but it would be a debate I
mean the the idea of banning political
ads is well in this ask a question
pressure would you would you ban
political ads on the part of third
parties or just candidates themselves
I would ban all of them we see that the
problem with that is that that too is an
issue that's kind that's actually been
discussed by the Supreme Court and and
it's it's held that to restrict that
kind of speech on the part of citizens
is it reduces the First Amendment now
the problem with being a First Amendment
advocate I'm learning is that in a you
know I don't want to to sound like it's
a sort of gotcha mechanism so that every
time somebody says well wouldn't this be
a good idea so yeah but it's settled
case law and you can't do it I'm not
saying that I think there's wisdom in
those decisions to to tell independent
particularly and not not just candidates
that they can't speak out and the only I
mean it made many times the only way
that you can get a political opinion
expressed large numbers of people has
been through advertising and so I think
it would be a bad idea to ban to banter
and I know as a point of fact it would
be held to be unconstitutional when
challenged in the Supreme Court running
a little bit short on time here time for
two more call silver Beach New Jersey
thanks for hanging in there morning on
the news industry local news and network
news it does seem like the news that
business has become a division of the
entertainment industry that's why I
think we lose actual investigative
reporting and it's more like
entertainment and it's quite decadent
and I think that's why it's in decline I
think there are two beacons of truth out
there one of them being in c-span and
the other is talk radio and specifically
Rush Limbaugh program as to banning
political advertisements I would say ban
politicians first all right caller would
Missouri
it's great we've we've been trying to
pick up all of that there there's a bad
line all of us have her fingers on our
ears did you get enough of that to
comment on you know I it sounds really
interesting but I only got the piece I'm
trying to take notes here and it was
hard because it kept going yes I know
you was breaking up yeah well we're out
of time for phone calls at least here
thank you for for phoning in with your
thoughts we do a couple minutes for some
final thoughts here concerning the FCC
and communications issues that you want
to share with us for the next couple of
months years
well they as I mentioned earlier the FCC
is about to undergo some significant
change with the no fewer than four new
members being being added here shortly
and I think it's going to be very
important to see how how that agency
handles its affairs over the course of
the under the next chairman what are you
hoping happens and who do you hope to
see well it's pretty well known who the
nominees are going to be already and I
guess I would say that I would like to
see a posture adopted by the FCC that is
independent of the Congress and which
looks to take the the long view of this
current and now outgoing chairman has
spoken a deregulatory language for some
time he hasn't always acted as
deregulatory as he's as he's he's given
the concept lip service more than he's
practiced it and I would hope that they
would do more of that the opportunities
for excellence in journalism and for a
flourishing and participatory democracy
is is at hand and it's to be found I
think in getting the government out of
the way and letting the rest of the
communications industry get along get on
with the world's work professor Miller
final thought well
certainly Patrick and I agree on the
need for a flourishing democracy and for
excellence in journalism but I guess
we're completely at odds over the
question of what's what what might
prevent those things from being realized
I suggest we listen to the callers every
single person who called in over the
last 45 minutes every one of them was
deeply troubled by what they see on TV
and I can attest to the fact that people
who pay attention to the other culture
industries consumers of recorded music
and buyers of books and some readers of
newspapers I mean there is a genuine
crisis of confidence in this country
people don't trust the media they don't
like the stuff that they're being given
I don't really think that the changing
of the guard at the FCC is gonna make an
appreciable difference Reed Hundt has
disagreed with James Coelho and his
cheong the NAB members of the Commission
only 12 times out of 5,000 so I know
that he's often being represented as a
kind of wild-eyed radical but he's not
he's no more radical than our president
is on the issue of the media and who
controls it I think that what we have to
do is is pay very close attention to the
civic and and economic consequences of
all this undue concentration of power
and wealth in the media a TV it
shouldn't be the national nanny granted
but it is the primary source of all
information about the world for most
Americans well that's a very frightening
thought this is a democracy Jefferson
said that no people can be both ignorant
and free so we should pay attention very
close attention to the four